## PICANTE
Prompt: In at least three paragraphs, make a prediction: in the year 2050, will Bitcoin, Ethereum, Cardano, or other be the number one blockchain in world? In making your argument be sure to include at least 3 references to news articles from reliable sources or peer-reviewed texts. Post on Slack when you are done!
---
In the year 2050, I think it's far more likely that we'll be suffering through the effects of climate disasters
rather than trading virtual currency. Of course, perhaps *because of* climate disasters, and the accompanying destabilization
of various governments and financial institutions, virtual currency may be all we have left. In any event, I think the prevalence of any particular blockchain, or even of the technology itself, is ultimately unpredictable.

Earlier this year, the Federal Reserve published a [working paper](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/ifdp/files/ifdp1334.pdf) on "stablecoins", that is, a species of blockchain that is "pegged" to a real-world currency. (This is where the "stable" in the name comes from--the value of the coin is in some way tethered to the "real" world.) As the authors of the paper aver, the "rapid ascension" of such coins, which grew by over 500% from 2021 to 2022, "has raised concerns", and could accomplish everything from a "two-tier banking system", in which blockchains and fiat currency complement one another, to stable coins providing a "safe-haven" from the volatility of crypto assets that have no fixed relationship to fiat currency.

If the authors of this paper--who, it must be said, far outstrip me in technical knowledge of both the finance system and cryptocurrency--see such an unpredictable future for stablecoins, which--given that they are pegged to the US Dollar--seem at least somewhat more predictable than other forms of blockhain currency, who am I to make any prediction about the success of BTC, Ether, or Cardano in 2050?

The authors themselves note that they are unable to consider "all the potential impacts of stablecoins", since there are simple too many: on consumer protection, monetary policy, and so on. But the truth is that the range of variables involved in the success or failure of any of these blockchains are too numerous to count.

Take the environment. As the [NRDC noted earlier this year](https://www.nrdc.org/stories/crypto-has-climate-problem), BTC takes up a tremendous amount of electricity--one mining outfit even bought a power plant in upstate NY! Of course, this energy consumption *could, in theory* be met with renewable or nuclear energy, and BTC mining could even spur change in the energy sector, as the quest for cheap, virtually limitless electricity to mine coins leads to further investment in solar, wind, fusion, etc. However, as the past 40 years of trying to do something about climate change has shown us, predicting whether or not anything will actually be done about renewable energy at a scale commensurate with the problems we face is a bear's game.

Finally, there remains the distinct possibility that governments and banking institutions will band together to co-opt or otherwise disrupt investments in blockchain technologies. [A16z, the noted venture capital firm, is heavily involved in pitching crypto, and is itself heavily invested in many of the new middlemen promising to bring crypto to the masses.](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/10/15/opinion/ezra-klein-podcast-katie-haun.html) In which case, I think it's hard to say--whether BTC, Ether, or Cardano survives--if the future of blockchains can really be said to be the future of the *technologies themselves*, and not the future of the giant megacorps who will no doubt own it. (In some ways, I see a parallel between the advent of blockchain technology, which seems on the verge of being co-opted by large middlemen, and the history of early telecommunications technology, like the telegraph and radio, which--as the lawyer Tim Wu so masterfully recounts in his book *[The Master Switch](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/194417/the-master-switch-by-tim-wu/)*--was quickly co-opted by what became the major telcos of the 20th century, such as AT&T.)
